# Picard

This image facilitates the usage of [Picard](https://broadinstitute.github.io/picard/), a set of command line tools for manipulating high-throughput sequencing data and formats such as SAM/BAM/CRAM and VCF.

## Using the Picard image

This toolset can be used to perform the following operations:

- Base Calling: tools that process sequencing machine data and detect sequencing level attributes.
- Diagnostics and Quality Control: tools that collect sequencing quality related and comparative metrics.
- Genotyping Arrays Manipulation: tools that manipulate data generated by genotyping arrays.
- Intervals Manipulation: tools that process genomic intervals in various formats.
- Read Data Manipulation: tools that manipulate read data in SAM, BAM or CRAM format.
- Reference: tools that analyze and manipulate FASTA format references.
- Variant Evaluation and Refinement: tools that evaluate and refine variant calls.
- Variant Filtering: tools that filter variants by annotating the FILTER column.
- Variant Manipulation: tools that manipulate variant call format (VCF) data.
- Other: Miscellaneous tools.

To see `Picard` options, just run `docker run --rm biagii/picard picard -h`.

# Using the Picard image in Linux
You should adapt and run the following command: `docker run --rm -v /your/data/dir:/data biagii/picard picard <picard-application-name> <options>`

In this command, you should replace:
- `/your/data/dir` to point to the directory that contains the input files you want to analyze.
- `<picard-application-name>` to the name of the `Picard` application you want to use.
- `<options> ` with the specific options of the `Picard` application. These options will include the input/output files, which should be referenced under `/data/`.

For instance, to clean a SAM file, you should run: `docker run --rm -v /your/data/dir:/data biagii/picard picard CleanSam -I /data/aln-pe.sam -O /data/aln-pe_cleaned.sam`

## Test data
To test the previous command, the input SAM file used is in `testdata` directory.